OKTA-308935: Create Migration Guide for Java Mgmt SDK v2.0.0 (#423)
okta/okta-sdk-java: MIGRATING.md

#### All `*Factor` classes Renamed to `*UserFactor`
This means that you will now have to start using the new `*UserFactor` objects instead.

### Package `com.okta.sdk.client.Client`

Below methods have been renamed for the sake of clarity.

   - Renamed `createRule` to `createGroupRule`
   - Renamed `getRule` to `getGroupRule`
   - Renamed `listRules` to `listGroupRules`

### Package `com.okta.sdk.resource.log.LogEventList`

The API used to get log info has undergone a signature change (note the order swap of `until` and `since` parameters).

   - `getLogs(String until, String since, String filter, String q, String sortOrder)`
   Signature changed to `getLogs(Date since, Date until, String filter, String q, String sortOrder)`
   
### Package `com.okta.sdk.resource.group.GroupList`

The API used to list the groups to which a user belongs, has undergone a signature change. 
There is no need for supplying the `expand` parameter anymore. 

   - `listGroups(String q, String filter, String expand)`
   Signature changed to `listGroups(String q, String filter)`
   

> With this removal of `expand` parameter, the caller has two options of achieving the previous result:

Reviewer: This should be indented, take a look at how the page renders

Author: fixed

- Make a second API call to the Group API and fetch the results.
- You can call the Groups API endpoint (or any Okta management API endpoint) using a syntax like below example:
  
  ```java
  // List Groups API, see: https://developer.okta.com/docs/reference/api/groups/#list-groups

>   ExtensibleResource result = client.http()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  GroupsList result = client.http()
```

>       .addQueryParameter("expand", "<<value>>")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      .addQueryParameter("expand", true)
```
(any other non-true value would result in the default behavior)

>       .get("/api/v1/groups", ExtensibleResource.class);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      .get("/api/v1/groups", GroupsList.class);
```

  ```

> Note that the support for `expand` parameter support might go away anytime in future.

Reviewer: indent

Author: fixed

### Package `com.okta.sdk.resource.application.SwaThreeFieldApplicationSettingsApplication`

Below APIs have undergone a name change.

   - `getTargetUrl` Renamed to `getTargetURL`
   - `setTargetUrl` Renamed to `setTargetURL`

### Package `com.okta.sdk.resource.group.Group`

With the introduction of enum type `com.okta.sdk.resource.group.GroupType`, the get group type operation will now make 
use of this new type instead of the `String` type used earlier.

>    - `getType` Return type changed from `String` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.group.GroupType`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `getType` Return type changed from `String` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.group.GroupType` enum
```

   
### Package `com.okta.sdk.resource.group.rule.GroupRule`

The properties `allGroupsValid` & `_embedded` were not used by the backend earlier and were always set to `null`.
As part of this upgrade, we will remove it from the method signatures.

   - Removed `getAllGroupsValid` and `setAllGroupsValid` (property `allGroupsValid` is being removed; 
   this option is being removed from future versions of Okta API)
   - Removed `getEmbedded` (property `_embedded` is removed; this property is undocumented in Okta API and hence being removed)
   - `delete(Boolean removeUsers)` Signature changed to `delete()`

### Package `com.okta.sdk.resource.log.LogAuthenticationContext`

The API to get log credential provider used to return a list of objects of type `LogCredentialProvider` earlier. 
Moving forward, the return type will be a single object of type `LogCredentialProvider`.

>    - `getCredentialProvider` Return type changed from `List<com.okta.sdk.resource.log.LogCredentialProvider>` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.log.LogCredentialProvider`

Reviewer: was the previous spec wrong?

Author: looks like it, yes.

Reviewer: add a note about this

Author: will do

Author: done

The API to get log credential type used to return a list of objects of type `LogCredentialType` earlier. 
Moving forward, the return type will be a single object of type `LogCredentialType`.

> - `getCredentialType` Return type changed from `List<com.okta.sdk.resource.log.LogCredentialType>` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.log.LogCredentialType`

Reviewer: was the spec wrong before?

Author: looks like it, yes.

### Package `com.okta.sdk.resource.policy.PolicyRule`

There is no need of exposing setter for the `read-only` property `id`.
   - Removed `setId` (property `id` is `read-only`)

### Package `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.VerifyFactorRequest`

> The property `tokenLifetimeSeconds` will not used by the backend going forward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The property `tokenLifetimeSeconds` is no longer used by the Okta API.
```

>    - Removed `getTokenLifetimeSeconds` & `setTokenLifetimeSeconds` (property `tokenLifetimeSeconds` is removed)

Reviewer: combine the these two statements:
```suggestion
   - Removed `getTokenLifetimeSeconds` & `setTokenLifetimeSeconds` (The property `tokenLifetimeSeconds` is no longer used by the Okta API.)
```

### Package `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.Role`

With the introduction of enum type `com.okta.sdk.resource.role.RoleType`, the getter/setter for role type operation will now make 
use of this new type instead of the `String` type used earlier.

>    - `getType` Return type changed from `String` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.role.RoleType`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `getType` Return type changed from `String` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.role.RoleType` enum
```

>    - `setType` Param type changed from `String` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.role.RoleType`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `setType` Param type changed from `String` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.role.RoleType` enum
```

The `endAllSessions` method has been removed. Use `clearSessions` instead to achieve the same functionality.
 
Following methods have undergone a return type change inline with the refactoring of `UserFactor*` objects as mentioned above.
   - `listSupportedFactors` Return type changed from `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.FactorList` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.UserFactorList`
   - `getFactor` Return type changed from `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.Factor` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.UserFactor`
   - `listFactors` Return type changed from `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.FactorList` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.UserFactorList` 

The `expirePassword` Return type changed from `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.TempPassword` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.User`

The reset password method will no longer need a provider argument.   
   - `resetPassword(String provider, Boolean sendEmail)` Signature changed to `resetPassword(Boolean sendEmail)`

### Package `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.UserCredentials`

The property `emails` was not used by the backend and was always `null` hitherto. 
   - Removed `getEmails` & `setEmails` (property `emails` was removed)

> Below SDK classes/interfaces are **deprecated** and will be removed from this project.
> 
> These SDK classes were previously moved to [okta-commons-java](https://github.com/okta/okta-commons-java)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following **deprecated** classes/interfaces have been removed (they were previously moved to [okta-commons-java](https://github.com/okta/okta-commons-java)):
```

# Okta Java Management SDK Migration Guide
 
This SDK uses semantic versioning and follows Okta's [library version policy](https://developer.okta.com/code/library-versions/). In short, we don't make breaking changes unless the major version changes!

## Migrating from 1.x.x to 2.0.0

Version 2.0.0 of this SDK introduces a number of breaking changes from previous versions. 
In addition to many new classes/interfaces, some existing class/interfaces are no longer backward compatible due to method renaming and signature changes, see [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes).

### Breaking Changes

Following is a list of changes that break backward compatibility in version 2.0.0.

- `com.okta.sdk.client.Client`
   - Renamed `createRule` to `createGroupRule`
   - Renamed `getRule` to `getGroupRule`
   - Renamed `listRules` to `listGroupRules`
   
- `com.okta.sdk.resource.log.LogEventList` 
   - `getLogs(String until, String since, String filter, String q, String sortOrder)`
   Signature changed to `getLogs(Date since, Date until, String filter, String q, String sortOrder)`
   
- `com.okta.sdk.resource.group.GroupList` 
   - `listGroups(String q, String filter, String expand)`

>    Signature changed to `listGroups(String q, String filter)`

Reviewer: is the object automatically expanded? did this change on the Okta side?

Author: Not quite sure on this one. My guess is the same.

Author: @bretterer if you have any background on why `expand` was removed, could you please share here?

Reviewer 2: `expand` is not documented, so we don't want to have this in the SDK at this time.  Suggest the developer who needs this makes the call to the api themselves with this, but warn that `expand` option could go away at any time

Reviewer: Two options come to mind:
1. Instruct the developer to make a second API call to the `group API` (i'm not sure this actually returns the same result though), but this would be ideal, as that `expand` option is undocumented and could be removed at any time.
1. provide an example using this technique: https://github.com/okta/okta-sdk-java#call-other-api-endpoints.

Author: updated

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.application.SwaThreeFieldApplicationSettingsApplication`
   - `getTargetUrl` Renamed to `getTargetURL`
   - `setTargetUrl` Renamed to `setTargetURL`

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.group.Group`

>    - `getType` Return type changed from `String` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.group.GroupType`

Reviewer: was this broken before?

Author: `GroupType` enum is newly introduced as part of this spec update. Hence, this method can now use the new type.

Reviewer: Add "enum" to the line, and I think it will become more clear what the user needs to do

Author: done

   
- `com.okta.sdk.resource.group.rule.GroupRule`
   - `delete(Boolean removeUsers)` Signature changed to `delete()`

>    - Removed `getAllGroupsValid` and `setAllGroupsValid` (property `allGroupsValid` is removed)

Reviewer: we may need to give context to the reader, was this value always null? why was it removed? Could I have previously used that value?

Author: Looked at https://developer.okta.com/docs/reference/api/groups/#group-attributes for property `allGroupsValid` and I don't seem to find it. I am not sure how it might have been used in the past but it is present in our current spec (1.6.0).
We removed it now in v2.0.0 spec.

Author: @bretterer do you have any background on this change?

Reviewer 2: I am not sure of past use of these methods.

Author: @bdemers @bretterer recommendations on how to word this change here?

Reviewer: I'm not sure what the purpose of this property was or, how it could be used.  But even saying something like, this option is being removed in future versions of the Okta API would be fine, (ideally with an explanation, but 🤷 )

Author: updated

>    - Removed `getEmbedded` (property `_embedded` is removed)

Reviewer: does this remove functionality or was the previous spec incorrect?

Author: This is a removed property as part of this spec revision. Not sure why it is removed.

Author: @bretterer do you have an idea why this property __embedded_ is removed from the new spec?

Reviewer 2: `_embedded` is not documented for this model

Author: @bdemers @bretterer what is your suggestion here? should we tell the reader that the property is now removed or?

Reviewer: worse case, just say it isn't documented (that seems really bad, but 🤷 )

Author: updated

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.log.LogAuthenticationContext`
   - `getCredentialProvider` Return type changed from `List` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.log.LogCredentialProvider`
   - `getCredentialType` Return type changed from `List` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.log.LogCredentialType`

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.policy.PolicyRule`
   - Removed `setId` (property `id` is read-only)

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.VerifyFactorRequest`
   - Removed `getTokenLifetimeSeconds` & `setTokenLifetimeSeconds` (property `tokenLifetimeSeconds` is removed)

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.Role`
   - `getType` Return type changed from `String` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.role.RoleType`
   - `setType` Param type changed from `String` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.role.RoleType`

- All `*Factor*` classes Renamed to `*UserFactor*`

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.User`
   - Renamed `addGroupTarget` to `addGroupTargetToRole`
   - Renamed `addRole` to `assignRole`
   - Renamed `listGroupTargetsForRole` to `listGroupTargets`
   - Renamed `removeGroupTargetFromRole` to `removeGroupTarget`
   - Renamed `addFactor` to `enrollFactor`
   - Renamed `listRoles`to `listAssignedRoles`

>    - Removed `forgotPassword` (use `resetPassword` instead)

Reviewer: ❤️

   - Removed `endAllSessions` (use `clearSessions` instead)
   - `listSupportedFactors` Return type changed from `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.FactorList` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.UserFactorList`
   - `expirePassword` Return type changed from `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.TempPassword` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.User`
   - `getFactor` Return type changed from `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.Factor` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.UserFactor`
   - `listFactors` Return type changed from `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.FactorList` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.UserFactorList` 
   - `resetPassword(String provider, Boolean sendEmail)` Signature changed to `resetPassword(Boolean sendEmail)`

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.UserCredentials`

>    - Removed `getEmails` & `setEmails` () (property `emails` is removed)

Reviewer: looks like there is an extra `()` ?
```suggestion
   - Removed `getEmails` & `setEmails` (property `emails` was removed)
```
was the spec previously invalid? (if so maybe just say "this value was always null") or something to show that use does not need to worry about this

Author: Looking at https://developer.okta.com/docs/reference/api/users/#example, I see that `emails` is not included in `credentials` (`UserCredentials` model). However, our `v1.6.0` spec has it. I see the revision `v2.0.0` as more inline to the developer documentation here. Having said that, I am not sure how `emails` was used by the Okta core back-end hitherto. I would try to add a helpful note to the reader here.

# Okta Java Management SDK Migration Guide
 
This SDK uses semantic versioning and follows Okta's [library version policy](https://developer.okta.com/code/library-versions/). In short, we don't make breaking changes unless the major version changes!

## Migrating from 1.x.x to 2.0.0

Version 2.0.0 of this SDK introduces a number of breaking changes from previous versions. 
In addition to many new classes/interfaces, some existing class/interfaces are no longer backward compatible due to method renaming and signature changes, see [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes).

### Breaking Changes

Following is a list of changes that break backward compatibility in version 2.0.0.

- `com.okta.sdk.client.Client`
   - Renamed `createRule` to `createGroupRule`
   - Renamed `getRule` to `getGroupRule`
   - Renamed `listRules` to `listGroupRules`
   
- `com.okta.sdk.resource.log.LogEventList` 

>    - `getLogs(java.lang.String, java.lang.String, java.lang.String, java.lang.String, java.lang.String)`

Reviewer: nit, keep the signatures smaller, remove the `java.lang` and `java.util` packages

Author: fixed

   Signature changed to `getLogs(java.util.Date, java.util.Date, java.lang.String, java.lang.String, java.lang.String)`
   
- `com.okta.sdk.resource.group.GroupList` 
   - `listGroups(java.lang.String,java.lang.String, java.lang.String)`

>    Signature changed to `listGroups(java.lang.String, java.lang.String)`

Reviewer: Include the new and old argument name to help describe what changed
(its hard to tell what has actually been removed, and what I would need to do to migrate)

Author: done

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.application.JsonWebKey`

>    - `getExpiresAt` Return type changed from `Date` to `String`

Reviewer: What? That seems like a bug (and a bad one)

Author: Fixed this.

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.application.SwaThreeFieldApplicationSettingsApplication`
   - `getTargetUrl` Renamed to `getTargetURL`
   - `setTargetUrl` Renamed to `setTargetURL`

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.group.Group`
   - `getType` Return type changed from `String` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.group.GroupType`

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.group.rule.GroupRule`

>    - Removed `delete` 

Reviewer: These might need an explanation (why was delete removed)?

Author: Actually, `delete(Boolean removeUsers)` Signature changed to `delete()`. Updated with this fact.

Author: Fixed this.

   - Removed `getAllGroupsValid` 
   - Removed `getEmbedded` 

>    - Removed `setAllGroupsValid`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.log.LogAuthenticationContext`
   - `getCredentialProvider` Return type changed from `List` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.log.LogCredentialProvider`

>    - `getCredentialType` Return type changed from `List` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.log.LogCredentialType`

Reviewer: where these broken before?

Author: Earlier, the return types were `List<LogCredentialProvider>` and `List<LogCredentialType>` for these methods.

Now with this spec update, the return types would become `LogCredentialProvider` and `LogCredentialType`.

Will update the guide with the above.

Author: done.

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.policy.Policy`

>    - Removed `createRule`

Reviewer: How do you create a Policy rule after this was removed?

Author: This is a mistake, removed it.

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.policy.PolicyRule`

>    - Removed `setId`

Reviewer: add note that this is read only now

Author: done

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.VerifyFactorRequest`

>    - Removed `getTokenLifetimeSeconds` & `setTokenLifetimeSeconds`

Reviewer: Is this no longer in the okta request/response?

```suggestion
   - Removed `getTokenLifetimeSeconds` and `setTokenLifetimeSeconds`
```

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.Role`
   - `getType` Return type changed from `String` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.role.RoleType`

>    - `setType` Param type changed from `String` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.role.RoleType`

Reviewer: Was this broken before?

Author: We added `RoleType` enum now and therefore, we make use of that type in this getter/setter.

Reviewer: OH, cool, add enum to these places to make it more clear
```suggestion
   - `setType` Param type changed from `String` to an enum `com.okta.sdk.resource.role.RoleType`
```

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.User`

>    - Removed `addFactor`

Reviewer: How do you add a factor now?

Author: corrected this. We use `enrollFactor` to add a factor now.

   - Renamed `addGroupTarget` to `addGroupTargetToRole`
   - Renamed `addRole` to `assignRole`

>    - Removed `endAllSessions`

Reviewer: What is the migration path? why was this removed?

Author: updated. we should use `clearSessions` to achieve this.

   - `expirePassword` Return type changed from `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.TempPassword` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.User`

>    - Removed `forgotPassword`

Reviewer: What does the user do instead?

Author: updated. User must use `resetPassword` to achieve this.

>    - `getFactor` Return type changed from `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.Factor` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.UserFactor`

Reviewer: This could probably just be something generic about how all of the `*Factor` classes have been renamed to `*userFactor`

Author: will include a generic note abt this.

Author: done

   - Removed `listAppLinks`
   - `listFactors` Return type changed from `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.FactorList` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.UserFactorList` 

>    - Renamed `listGroupTargetsForRole` to `listGroupTargets`

Reviewer: group the renamed and removed elements together, it's only a 2 character diffference between the words and hard to read this way

Author: done

>    - Removed `listRoles`

Reviewer: why? what is the alternative?

Author: alternative is `listAssignedRoles`. Updated this.

   - `listSupportedFactors` Return type changed from `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.FactorList` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.UserFactorList`
   - Renamed `removeGroupTargetFromRole` to `removeGroupTarget`

>    - `resetPassword(java.lang.String, java.lang.Boolean)` Signature changed to `resetPassword(java.lang.Boolean)`

Reviewer: remove package names, add arg names

Author: done

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.UserCredentials`

>    - Removed `getEmails` & `setEmails`

Reviewer: why?

Author: property `emails` is laid to rest in the new spec. Apparently, `emails` is no longer part of `UserCredentials`.

# Okta Java Management SDK Migration Guide
 
This SDK uses semantic versioning and follows Okta's [library version policy](https://developer.okta.com/code/library-versions/). In short, we don't make breaking changes unless the major version changes!

## Migrating from 1.x.x to 2.0.0

Version 2.0.0 of this SDK introduces a number of breaking changes from previous versions. 

> In addition to many new classes/interfaces, some existing class/interfaces are no longer backward compatible due to method renaming and signature changes, see [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes).

Reviewer 3: nit: class/interfaces -> classes/interfaces (to maintain consistency)

Author: done

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.policy.PolicyRule`
   - Removed `setId` (property `id` is `read-only`)

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.VerifyFactorRequest`
   - Removed `getTokenLifetimeSeconds` & `setTokenLifetimeSeconds` (property `tokenLifetimeSeconds` is removed)

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.Role`
   - `getType` Return type changed from `String` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.role.RoleType`
   - `setType` Param type changed from `String` to an enum `com.okta.sdk.resource.role.RoleType`

- All `*Factor` classes Renamed to `*UserFactor`

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.User`
   - Renamed `addGroupTarget` to `addGroupTargetToRole`
   - Renamed `addRole` to `assignRole`
   - Renamed `listGroupTargetsForRole` to `listGroupTargets`
   - Renamed `removeGroupTargetFromRole` to `removeGroupTarget`
   - Renamed `addFactor` to `enrollFactor`
   - Renamed `listRoles`to `listAssignedRoles`
   - Removed `forgotPassword` (use `resetPassword` instead)
   - Removed `endAllSessions` (use `clearSessions` instead)
   - `listSupportedFactors` Return type changed from `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.FactorList` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.UserFactorList`

>    - `expirePassword` Return type changed from `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.TempPassword` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.User`

Reviewer: Was `TempPassword` removed too?

Author: Nope, `TempPassword` remains.

Reviewer 4: IIRC there's a new method to cover the temp pass use case. You could mention that.

Author: The original intention of this note is to explain the changes to `expirePassword` return type.  I feel there is no need to explain the `TempPassword` use case here.

   - `getFactor` Return type changed from `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.Factor` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.UserFactor`

>    - `listFactors` Return type changed from `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.FactorList` to `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.factor.UserFactorList` 

Reviewer: I think this one is covered in the generic comment above

   - `resetPassword(String provider, Boolean sendEmail)` Signature changed to `resetPassword(Boolean sendEmail)`

- `com.okta.sdk.resource.user.UserCredentials`

>    - Removed `getEmails` & `setEmails` (property `emails` was removed)

Reviewer: Why?

Author: I am not sure why this property was removed from the latest spec. 

@bretterer do you have any background on this change?

Reviewer 2: `email` is not documented as part of the `UserCredentials` setup.

Author: @bdemers @bretterer what is your recommendation here? should we tell the reader that the property does not exist anymore or?

Reviewer 2: What was the usecase of this property in the past.  What is the way to do the same thing in the new version of the SDK?

Author: I'm not entirely sure of the past use case of this property. I can see that _email_ can be also set as User property (setter in User model). So, I can't tell if this property in _UserCredentials_ was used effectively in the past.

> - Deprecated the following classes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Deprecated the following deprecated classes:
```

> - Deprecated the following deprecated classes (these classes were previously moved to [okta-commons-java](https://github.com/okta/okta-commons-java):

Reviewer 3: Deprecated the following deprecated classes? Isn't that redundant?
Shouldn't it be "Deprecated the following classes?"

Author: typo, will fix it.

Author: fixed
